README.md, before:

# dsmc
horsing around with dsmc.

**COMPILING**

Just run 'make' in the main directory.
This will first of all compile lodepng, then it will go into src and compile 
the main program.
The executable is placed into the 'bin' directory.


**NOW DOING..**

Implementing HS collision model..

**COMMENTS AND USELESS STUFF**

Ok, for now the advection of particles is implemented in 1D.
The particles move and periodicity is applied in the Y and Z direction.
The istantaneous state is plotted on a PNG image.

*TODO 1*: implement a counter, that spits the TOTAL NUMBER OF PARTICLES,
          because before proceeding I'd like to be sure that I've 
          implemented the "add particle()" and "pop particle()" in a 
          reasonable way!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

*TODO 2*: implement some function that may compute and extract values from 
          the cells

*TODO 3*: implement a better wall bouncing! MAXWELL MODEL for example. Mine
          is too naive I guess..

*TODO 4*: input file reader. Insert argc, argv[] and pass the filename to
          the solver's constructor. In the solver::initialize() function
          call the file_reader and pick required values.

*TODO 5*: implement collisions. Take a look at Handbook of Fluid Dynamics,
          by Johnson. Has a chapter about it. Seems very practical.

**FUTURE WORK and NOTES FOR ME**

---

First of all, consider replacing all the rand() with a good random number
generator!
Use Boost::Random for example.. or take a look at the Mersenne Twister.
C++11 implements a lot of stuff in <random>.
Supposedly nice paper about pseudo-random numbers generation: 
http://lammps.sandia.gov/threads/pdfFowF57Qu9A.pdf

---

Currently, when a particle moves from one cell to another, it's removed 
from this cell: since it's a part of a vector, the position is freed and 
all the subsequent particles are shifted up of one position.
I guess this takes a lot of time.. It might be more efficient to assign 
a bool variable to each particle, like "DoIExist". Deleting the particle
means assigning the value 0 to "DoIExist".
Once deleted, if a new particle enters a cell, it's assigned the first
free position, i.e. the first particle that has DoIExist == 0 is totally
rewritten.
Of course, every statistics is performed only on existing particles.

Commit message:

added sim_data class containing data about the simulation

README.md, after:

# dsmc
horsing around with dsmc.

**COMPILING**

Just run 'make' in the main directory.
This will first of all compile lodepng, then it will go into src and compile 
the main program.
The executable is placed into the 'bin' directory.

You can run the program from wherever you want; the output will be put into
a folder in the working directory, named 'output'.


**NOW DOING..**

I'm creating an object sol\_data, that reads an input file and saves:
1) general properties for the solver such as dt and solution\_type
2) properties of particles such as mass, diameter, reference temperatures,
   collisional parameters etc, and all those can be called by the collisor 
   routine.

THEN I have to add into the particle class an integer variable "species".
This will imply modifying the seed\_particle() function..

THEN I have to implement HS and VHS collisional models.. Start from the 
solver::collision\_step().


**COMMENTS AND USELESS STUFF**

Ok, for now the advection of particles is implemented in 1D.
The particles move and periodicity is applied in the Y and Z direction.
The istantaneous state is plotted on a PNG image.

*TODO 0*: be careful! If velocity is so high that a particle spans one cell
          and its neighboring also during only one timestep, then it will be 
          assigned to a neighboring cell, but it will be out of it!
          IMPLEMENT SOME CHECK IF PARTICLES ARE OUT OF THE DOMAIN, AND THROW
          AN ERROR LIKE "choose a smaller Dt, you moron!"

*TODO 1*: implement a counter, that spits the TOTAL NUMBER OF PARTICLES,
          because before proceeding I'd like to be sure that I've 
          implemented the "add particle()" and "pop particle()" in a 
          reasonable way!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

*TODO 2*: implement some function that may compute and extract values from 
          the cells

*TODO 3*: implement a better wall bouncing! MAXWELL MODEL for example. Mine
          is too naive I guess..

*TODO 4*: input file reader. Insert argc, argv[] and pass the filename to
          the solver's constructor. In the solver::initialize() function
          call the file_reader and pick required values.

*TODO 5*: implement collisions. Take a look at Handbook of Fluid Dynamics,
          by Johnson. Has a chapter about it. Seems very practical.

**FUTURE WORK and NOTES FOR ME**

---

First of all, consider replacing all the rand() with a good random number
generator!
Use Boost::Random for example.. or take a look at the Mersenne Twister.
C++11 implements a lot of stuff in <random>.
Supposedly nice paper about pseudo-random numbers generation: 
http://lammps.sandia.gov/threads/pdfFowF57Qu9A.pdf

---

Currently, when a particle moves from one cell to another, it's removed 
from this cell: since it's a part of a vector, the position is freed and 
all the subsequent particles are shifted up of one position.
I guess this takes a lot of time.. It might be more efficient to assign 
a bool variable to each particle, like "DoIExist". Deleting the particle
means assigning the value 0 to "DoIExist".
Once deleted, if a new particle enters a cell, it's assigned the first
free position, i.e. the first particle that has DoIExist == 0 is totally
rewritten.
Of course, every statistics is performed only on existing particles.
